# Baking AMIs

Ensure credentials in your default profile are refreshed and ready to go, then bake an AMI with the [bake-ami.sh](../core-components/bake-ami.sh)
script:
```
$ ./core-components/bake-ami.sh
Usage:
  bake-ami.sh
    -a : [Required] account name
    -t : [Required] ami type -> cassandra | opscenter
    -i : base ami_id
```
* Running with `-t cassandra` will produce a **DSE Cassandra** image.
* Running with `-t opscenter` will produce a **DSE OpsCenter** image.
* In both cases, the base AMI should be Amazon Linux 2.0, and can be provided in one of two ways:
  * With the `-i` option
  * As `PACKER_BASE_AMI_ID` in [variables.yaml](../configurations/default-account/variables.yaml)
  * If not specified, the script will simply use awscli to look up the newest amzn2 AMI.
* **Note:** the `PACKER_SUBNET_ID` variable must be a public subnet with a route to an Internet Gateway.  Otherwise, Packer
  will time out while waiting for SSH to become available.

Known issues:

> `Error launching source instance: PendingVerification: Your request for accessing resources in this region is being validated...`

A _brand new_ AWS account will sometimes return this error.  Just wait it out and try again later.

> 404 error while running bake-ami.sh

The script uses `curl -s -4 ifconfig.co` to get your external IP address (for use in a security group's inbound rules).
Sometimes ifconfig doesn't respond.  Just run the command again.

> `Another app is currently holding the yum lock; waiting for it to exit...`

This happens (often) at the start of a Packer build.  Just wait it out, the yum lock should be cleared after a few seconds.